hi I'm Amanda and welcome to the hot
plate today we're going to be getting
steamy in the kitchen making pizzas
[Music]
Pizza is such a great dish and this
particular recipe has been inspired by
our last trip to Montreal where we
taught a bunch of first-year McGill
students in the cafeteria how to make
their own pizza dough from scratch at
home now we're here to share it with you
and we've got all of our ingredients
right here we've got three and a half
cups of all-purpose flour plus some
extra for dusting some salt one
tablespoon of granulated sugar 1
tablespoon of active yeast extra virgin
olive oil arugula
buffalo mozzarella tomato sauce
one-and-a-half cups of warm water and
some thin strips of prosciutto homemade
pizza dough is an easy thing to make at
home but a lot of people are turned off
by the rising time that it involves now
as I said before we're using active
yeast this is a very easy ingredient to
find in the grocery store and you'll
either find it in a jar we have 1
tablespoon or you'll find it in
individual packets now the packets gonna
say 2 teaspoons and 1/4 teaspoon which
is exactly the same amount so you can
just go ahead and rip open a package and
that's what we actually have in here
right now
now we also have half a cup of that warm
water that we were talking about now the
reason we do this is this is creating a
proof and this is gonna be what allows
our dough to rise so we're gonna be
stirring this into the warm water once
you've given it a stir we're gonna set
it to the side and then we're gonna talk
a little bit about this flour now we
have three and a half cups of
all-purpose flour here and the great
thing is is this is actually gonna make
two fairly good-sized pizzas if you're
cooking for one maybe even two it's a
great idea to either move the rest of
the dough into the fridge after we've
completed this step or freeze it for
another use now a lot of people also
like to ask me about whole-wheat you can
definitely use some whole-wheat flour in
this but make sure that it only accounts
for a third of the all-purpose flour
that's in here otherwise we're gonna get
to tough a dough now to our three and a
half cups we're gonna be adding one
teaspoon of kosher salt and then we're
gonna be giving that a little mix I'm
just gonna use the back of this don't
like too dirty more dishes than I need
to and we're just gonna wait for our you
stir eyes then we're ready to keep
making our dough we've waited ten
minutes now we're gonna be stirring our
one tablespoon of granulated sugar into
our yeast adding sugar is what some
people call
feeding the yeast all of these that we
just added that made that water murky is
gonna start rising to the top and
bubbling and that's how we know that we
have the right water temperature and
that the yeast is active and is gonna
get our dough to rise all right it's
time to make our dough so the Rings are
coming off oh there you go and we're
gonna start by actually making a well in
the center of our flour now I just like
to use my fist and just to make a little
hole in the center we're then going to
be going ahead and we're gonna start
adding our wet ingredients we have our
yeasty water here which we're gonna pour
in then add the remaining one cup of
warm water drizzle in a quarter cup of
extra virgin olive oil get out your
dough hooking finger and start mixing in
the center of the wet and dry
ingredients until they start to combine
and come together keep using your dough
hooking finger and keep stirring until
it comes together in a soft warm massive
dough once it does that we're gonna be
moving the bowl aside and then lightly
flowering our surface now we want to
lightly flour the surface so that the
dough doesn't stick transfer your dough
ball onto the lightly floured surface
and begin to knead continue to knead the
dough for five minutes if you need to
add some additional flour if it's
getting sticky you do but make sure not
to add too much or it'll shorten the
protein strands in the dough keep
kneading until it comes together in a
nice soft mass now I'm not a big fan of
dirtying extra dishes so we're gonna use
the same bowl that we were mixing our
dough in we're gonna be drizzling a
little bit of extra-virgin olive oil in
here to help prevent sticking toss our
kneaded ball of dough back into this
bowl and we're gonna cover it with a
warm damp towel now that we have our
dough covered we're gonna have to put it
in a really safe place I actually like
to use my microwave if I'm not gonna
have to use it because it's warm and
it's damp and that's the type of climate
we want this dough to rise in so I'm
gonna go and pop it in to our microwave
now it's gonna have to rise for one hour
so just leave it alone and after now
we're going to show you how to finish
prepping your dough we've just taken our
dough out of the microwave where it's
just been
rusting to let the dough rise and the
next step is preheating our oven we're
gonna be preheating it to 500 degrees
Fahrenheit and adding our baking sheet
so it can get nice and hot as well and
now we get to reveal the dough now it's
doubled in size while it's been resting
for the hour while all that yeast has
been really acting and making everything
expand so now all we have to do is punch
it down we're gonna be just adding a
little bit of flour back onto our
working surface and we're gonna grab
half the dough we're gonna save the
other half keep it in the fridge I might
want pizza this weekend and now we're
actually going to be breaking out some
parchment paper now this is one of my
favorite tricks for baking pizza is
because you can actually roll the pizza
right on to it and assemble it so that
the preheated baking sheet stays really
really hot and all you have to do is
just lift it up and pop it right on so
we're gonna start by stretching out our
dough this can all be done by hand if
you want to use a rolling pin by all
means go ahead an empty wine bottle
works as well but I'm gonna make this a
little bit of a thicker pizza add a
little bit of flour you can also add
cornmeal right now too for a little bit
of a crunch on that base now that we
have our dough all rolled out we're
gonna be adding our toppings now my
choice toppings today are going to be an
arugula prosciutto mix any toppings will
work so feel free to substitute whatever
you'd like
we're gonna start by labeling on our
sauce our pizzas out of the oven the
cheese has melted the prosciutto is
crisp and the last addition we have is
our arugula now I'm gonna be drizzling
the arugula with a little bit of extra
virgin olive oil now I'm just gonna go
ahead and cut myself a piece mmm
oh that's saltiness from the prosciutto
the bottom of our crust is ultra crunchy
who got arugula everywhere this pizzas
delicious thanks very much for watching
the hot plate guys make sure to check
out this and all of our other episodes
as the hot plate dotnet and updates on
our Facebook page facebook.com slash the
hot plate
[Music]